The alpha version of wwxr.io was seeded with content scraped from [Common Crawl][cc] data. The data set was scraped for instances of `<a-scene>` and `<model-viewer>` tags, which represents [A-Frame][af] content, and [3D model content][mv], respectively. Approximately 3 billion web pages were processed, but this only yields ~38,000 pages containing those tags.

There are several issues with this approach:

- By design, Common Crawl is only meant to be a [sample of the Web][cc-sample]. It is usually used for statistical analysis of content on the Web, and is not meant to be a comprehensive snapshot of it. So the data is likely missing a large portion of the Web, which is especially problematic for XR content, since it is still rare compared to traditional content.
- Common Crawl [does not execute JavaScript][cc-js], it only stores the HTML content of pages as they were sent by servers. This means that dynamic content, or entire pages that are rendered in JavaScript are missing from the data. Again, this may be especially problematic for XR content, since modern websites are likely to use dynamic content or be rendered on the client.

In addition to issues inherent to Common Crawl, wwxr.io has to overcome these problems:

- The data scraping is very naive. A simple string search is performed for the relevant tags, which means there may be false positives if the HTML is malformed, the tag is part of an un-hydrated template, or the tag is actually commented out. Currently the engine does not check for dead content either, like model URLs that 404.
- XR content, especially A-Frame content, often does not include sufficient context in the title or description of the page. This lack of metadata means that content is difficult to search for.
- Since XR is still relatively rare on the Web, there may not be enough content to make a search engine worth while. You may only find a handful results, if any, for your particular keywords.
- Pages that contain A-Frame content may not actually be viewable in VR or AR. A-Frame content maybe restricted to 2D viewing, or may not function at all. The existence of the `<a-scene>` tag alone is not sufficient to determine if the content is actually XR content.
- We cannot find XR content implemented with other frameworks, like three.js, babylon.js, PlayCanvas, etc.

Some possible solutions to these issues:

- In addition to the Common Crawl data, we crawl the Web ourselves. This may be most effective if we allow site owners, and enthusiasts to submit domains manually, which we would then crawl.
- Our crawler executes JavaScript in order to account for dynamic content and client-rendered pages.
- Our crawler looks for tags in a parsed DOM tree, instead of using a simple string search.
- In addition to a search interface, we allow visitors to explore and discover content, using a word cloud, content filtering, or some sort of categorization.
- We prune bad content including page or model URLs that 404. We might do this during the seeding or crawling process, or as a secondary pruning step that occurs regularly.
- We propose and encourage the XR community to adopt a meta tag that is specific to XR content, such as an [Open Graph][og] tag `<meta property="og:type" content="webxr:vr" />`. This would allow us to find content that isn't represented by a simple HTML tag.
- We encourage the XR community to add title and description metadata to their content. For 3D model content, we might get away with collecting a paragraph or two of text on the page, as a fallback.

We also have improvements to make:

- Figure out the ideal UX for visitors, and improve the UI as needed.
- Implement a good relevance or ranking algorithm for discovery and search results.
- Allow visitors to report content that is broken or was incorrectly identified as XR content.

[cc]: https://commoncrawl.org/
[af]: https://aframe.io/
[mv]: https://modelviewer.dev/
[cc-sample]: https://groups.google.com/g/common-crawl/c/xmSZX85cRjg/m/iqADMxH_AgAJ
[cc-js]: https://groups.google.com/g/common-crawl/c/HXQ5D-7rDIw/m/uOHnDeQbBQAJ
[og]: https://ogp.me/
